miranda/query-your-data updates to the getting started guide (#936)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/getting-started/query-data.md

# Query your data

With TimescaleDB, there's no need to learn a custom query language. **TimescaleDB
supports full SQL**. You can use your SQL knowledge along with the rich 
ecosystem of PostgreSQL tools, and add the extra features and performance of
TimescaleDB.

> Here are some query examples so that you can get familiar with using SQL along
> with some of TimescaleDB's most popular functions. 

Author: ```suggestion
Here are some query examples so you can get familiar with using SQL alongside
popular TimescaleDB functions.
```

## Basic SQL queries
### Select all stock data from the last day.

>    This query uses the [`WHERE`][clause-expressions] clause to only show results with
>    a timestamp within the last day. 

Author: ```suggestion
   This query uses the [`WHERE`][clause-expressions] clause to only show results for
   timestamps within the last day. 
```

   ```sql
   SELECT * from stocks_real_time srt
   WHERE time > now() - INTERVAL '1 day';
   ```

### Select the top 10 stock values by price.

   This query uses the [`ORDER BY`][order-by] keyword to order the results by descending price
   and limit the number of results shown to 10. 

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM stocks_real_time srt
   ORDER by PRICE desc
   LIMIT 10;   
   ```

### Calculate the average trade price for Apple from the last day

>    This query uses the [`avg()`][average] function along with [`filter`][filter] and `WHERE` 

Author: ```suggestion
   This query uses the [`avg()`][average] function along with [`FILTER`][filter] and `WHERE` 
```

   based on an interval of your choice. Often you "bucket" time so that you can perform
   an aggregation over the chosen interval. 
   
   For example, say `time` is a timestamp column that shows values incrementing every hour 
   and `value` is a numeric column. You would like to aggregate `value` using the `sum()` 
   function so that you get summed values over each day. To accomplish this you can
   use the `time_bucket()` function on the `time` column to “bucket” the hourly data into daily data, 
   then perform the `sum()` function on the `value` column to get the sum of your values across each day. 

   <img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/time-bucket.jpg"
    alt="time_bucket() Illustration"/>

   For more information on the `time_bucket()` function, see the [`time_bucket()` page][time-bucket] within our API 
   Reference section. 

   The next SQL query calculates the average stock trading price for each company
   over each day. Use the `time_bucket()` function with an interval of one day, include 
   the `avg()` function on price, and include `symbol` so you can group the average 

>    price calculations by company. The `where` clause specifies results are limited to only 
>    show days that occur within the last week. The [`group by`][clause-expressions] clause is necessary 

Author: ```suggestion
   price calculations by company. The `WHERE` limits the results to
   days within the last week. The [`GROUP BY`][clause-expressions] clause is necessary 
```

# Query your data

With TimescaleDB, there's no need to learn a custom query language. **TimescaleDB
supports full SQL**. You can use your SQL knowledge along with the rich 
ecosystem of PostgreSQL tools in addition to the extra functionality gained through
TimescaleDB.

> <highlight type="tip">
> Fun fact: TimescaleDB adds important enhancements to the PostgreSQL query planner
> that improve query reusability for INTERVAL predicates, something PostgreSQL does
> not have.
> </highlight>

Author: ```suggestion
```

# Query your data

With TimescaleDB, there's no need to learn a custom query language. **TimescaleDB
supports full SQL**. You can use your SQL knowledge along with the rich 
ecosystem of PostgreSQL tools in addition to the extra functionality gained through
TimescaleDB.

> <highlight type="tip">

Author: I was hesitant about keeping this on the page too so if you feel it is uneeded lets cut it!

Fun fact: TimescaleDB adds important enhancements to the PostgreSQL query planner
that improve query reusability for INTERVAL predicates, something PostgreSQL does
not have.
</highlight>

Here we provide some query examples so that you can get familiar with using SQL along
with some of TimescaleDB's most popular functions. 

## Basic SQL queries

1. Selecting all stock data from the last day.

   This query utilizes the [`where`][clause-expressions] clause to specify that you only want to see result

>    where the `time` column is greater than the timestamp from one day prior. 

Author: Great point, I tend to use lowercase but I will do caps for the SQL keywords from now on, my bad!

   ```sql
   select * from stocks_real_time srt
   where time > now() - interval '1 day';
   ```

2. Selecting the top 10 stock values by price.

   This query utilizes the [`order by`][order-by] keyword to order the results by price descending
   and limit the number of results shown to 10. 

   ```sql
   select * from stocks_real_time srt
   order by price desc
   limit 10;   
   ```

3. The average trade price for Apple from the last day

   This query uses the [`avg()`][average] function along with [`filter`][filter] and `where` 
   to specify that the results should only include 'AAPL' (Apple) trades that were made within the 
   last day. 

   ```sql
   select
   avg(price) filter (where symbol = 'AAPL')
   from stocks_real_time srt
   where time > now() - interval '2 day';
   ```

## Advanced TimescaleDB SQL functions

Timescale has many custom-built SQL functions to help you perform time-series
analysis in fewer lines of code. Let's look at how to use three of these functions. 

Functions covered include:

>  * [first()][first]: used for finding the earliest value based on a time within an aggregate group

Author: I'm totally good with whatever the standard is for the docs. It's helps me to see brackets because it indicates that it is a function, but I also am good with whatever!

   use the `time_bucket()` function on the `time` column to “bucket” the hourly data into daily data 
   then perform the `sum()` function on the `value` column to get the sum of your values across each day. 

   <img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/time-bucket.jpg"
    alt="time_bucket() Illustration"/>

   For more information on the `time_bucket()` function, see the [`time_bucket()` page][time-bucket] within our API 
   Reference section. 

   For this SQL query, you will find the average stock trading price for each company
   over each day. We use the `time_bucket()` function with an interval of one day, include 
   the `avg()` function on price, and include `symbol` so we can group the average 
   price calculations by company. The `where` clause specifies results will be limited to only 
   show days that occur within the last week. The [`group by`][clause-expressions] clause is necessary 
   for aggregation and allows you to group the results by the day and company. And finally the `order by` 
   clause orders the results first on the bucketed date, then by symbol. 

   ```sql

>    select
>       time_bucket('1 day', time) as bucket,
>       symbol,
>       avg(price)
>    from stocks_real_time srt
>    where time > now() - interval '1 week'
>    group by bucket, symbol
>    order by bucket, symbol;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   SELECT
      time_bucket('1 day', time) as bucket,
      symbol,
      avg(price)
   FROM stocks_real_time srt
   WHERE time > now() - INTERVAL '1 week'
   GROUP BY bucket, symbol
   ORDER BY bucket, symbol;
```

# Query your data

With TimescaleDB, there's no need to learn a custom query language. **TimescaleDB
supports full SQL**. You can use your SQL knowledge along with the rich 
ecosystem of PostgreSQL tools in addition to the extra functionality gained through
TimescaleDB.

<highlight type="tip">
Fun fact: TimescaleDB adds important enhancements to the PostgreSQL query planner
that improve query reusability for INTERVAL predicates, something PostgreSQL does
not have.
</highlight>

> Here we provide some query examples so that you can get familiar with using SQL along

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some query examples so that you can get familiar with using SQL along
```

with some of TimescaleDB's most popular functions. 

> <procedure>

Reviewer 2: I don't think this really qualifies as a procedure, since it's actually a list of commands to try (not steps that you need to work through in order). Might be better to take it out of procedure tags, and just do it as a bulleted list?

Author: Yeah I actually made that exact change yesterday evening and forgot to push it up! Thanks Lana!

## Basic SQL queries

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

1. Selecting all stock data from the last day.

   This query utilizes the [`where`][clause-expressions] clause to specify that you only want to see result
   where the `time` column is greater than the timestamp from one day prior. 

   ```sql
   select * from stocks_real_time srt
   where time > now() - interval '1 day';
   ```

1. Selecting the top 10 stock values by price.

   This query utilizes the [`order by`][order-by] keyword to order the results by price descending
   and limit the number of results shown to 10. 

   ```sql
   select * from stocks_real_time srt
   order by price desc
   limit 10;   
   ```

1. The average trade price for Apple from the last day

   This query uses the [`avg()`][average] function along with [`filter`][filter] and `where` 
   to specify that the results should only include 'AAPL' (Apple) trades that were made within the 
   last day. 

   ```sql
   select
   avg(price) filter (where symbol = 'AAPL')
   from stocks_real_time srt
   where time > now() - interval '2 day';
   ```
</procedure>

> <procedure>

Reviewer 2: Same for this one, it's not really a procedure.

## Advanced TimescaleDB SQL functions

Timescale has many custom-built SQL functions to help you perform time-series
analysis in fewer lines of code. Let's look at how to use three of these functions. 

Functions covered include:
 * [first()][first]: used for finding the earliest value based on a time within an aggregate group
 * [last()][last]: used for finding the latest value based on time within an aggregate group
 * [time_bucket()][time-bucket]: used for analyzing data over arbitrary time intervals

1. Using `first()` and `last()` functions

   The `first()` and `last()` functions gets you the first and last value respectively that occurs 
   within a column when ordered by another column. 
   
   For example, say you have a table with timestamp column `time`, and numeric column `value`. If you 
   used `first(value, time)`, your results would show the first number in the `value` column when ordered 
   with respect to the `time` column ascending in value. 

>    In this query, you will use both the `first()` and `last()` functions in order to find the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In this query, you use both the `first()` and `last()` functions to find the 
```

   The `time_bucket()` function allows you to take a time column and “bucket” the values 
   based on an interval of your choice. Often you "bucket" time so that you can perform
   an aggregation over the chosen interval. 
   
   For example, say `time` is a timestamp column that shows values incrementing every hour 
   and `value` is a numeric column. You would like to aggregate `value` using the `sum()` 
   function so that you get summed values over each day. To accomplish this you can
   use the `time_bucket()` function on the `time` column to “bucket” the hourly data into daily data 
   then perform the `sum()` function on the `value` column to get the sum of your values across each day. 

   <img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/time-bucket.jpg"
    alt="time_bucket() Illustration"/>

   For more information on the `time_bucket()` function, see the [`time_bucket()` page][time-bucket] within our API 
   Reference section. 

   For this SQL query, you will find the average stock trading price for each company

>    over each day. We use the `time_bucket()` function with an interval of one day, include 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   over each day. Use the `time_bucket()` function with an interval of one day, include 
```

>    the `avg()` function on price, and include `symbol` so we can group the average 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the `avg()` function on price, and include `symbol` so you can group the average 
```

>    price calculations by company. The `where` clause specifies results will be limited to only 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   price calculations by company. The `where` clause specifies results are limited to only 
```

   show days that occur within the last week. The [`group by`][clause-expressions] clause is necessary 

>    for aggregation and allows you to group the results by the day and company. And finally the `order by` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   for aggregation and allows you to group the results by the day and company. Finally the `order by` 
```

Reviewer: Edited Lana's suggestion to add a comma and capitalize order by

   clause orders the results first on the bucketed date, then by symbol. 

   ```sql
   select
      time_bucket('1 day', time) as bucket,
      symbol,
      avg(price)
   from stocks_real_time srt
   where time > now() - interval '1 week'
   group by bucket, symbol
   order by bucket, symbol;
   ```

</procedure>

> <highlight type="note">
> For more information about the functions provided by TimescaleDB and Timescale Toolkit extension,
> see the [API Reference for hyperfunctions](/api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions).
> </highlight>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the functions provided by TimescaleDB and Timescale Toolkit extension,
see the [API Reference for hyperfunctions](/api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions).
```

Reviewer: Edited Lana's suggestion to say "TimescaleDB Toolkit." I'm not actually sure how we brand it, but that is what we have on the main Toolkit docs page right now.

Also edited link because `:currentVersion:` doesn't work in highlights (highlights are parsed in Markdown separately from the main page, as are tags, which creates all sorts of funny limitations)

## Next steps

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Now that you're familiar with some TimescaleDB queries and functions, like `time_bucket`, let's learn about

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you're familiar with some TimescaleDB queries and functions, like `time_bucket`, learn about
```

# Query your data

With TimescaleDB, there's no need to learn a custom query language. **TimescaleDB
supports full SQL**. You can use your SQL knowledge along with the rich 
ecosystem of PostgreSQL tools, and add the extra features and performance of
TimescaleDB.

Here are some query examples so you can get familiar with using SQL alongside
popular TimescaleDB functions.

## Basic SQL queries
### Select all stock data from the last day.

   This query uses the [`WHERE`][clause-expressions] clause to only show results for
   timestamps within the last day. 

   ```sql
   SELECT * from stocks_real_time srt
   WHERE time > now() - INTERVAL '1 day';
   ```

### Select the top 10 stock values by price.

   This query uses the [`ORDER BY`][order-by] keyword to order the results by descending price
   and limit the number of results shown to 10. 

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM stocks_real_time srt

>    ORDER by PRICE desc

Author: ```suggestion
   ORDER by price DESC
```

>    ORDER by PRICE desc

Author: ```suggestion
   ORDER BY price DESC
```

   use the `time_bucket()` function on the `time` column to “bucket” the hourly data into daily data, 
   then perform the `sum()` function on the `value` column to get the sum of your values across each day. 

   <img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/time-bucket.jpg"
    alt="time_bucket() Illustration"/>

   For more information on the `time_bucket()` function, see the [`time_bucket()` page][time-bucket] within our API 
   Reference section. 

   The next SQL query calculates the average stock trading price for each company
   over each day. Use the `time_bucket()` function with an interval of one day, include 
   the `avg()` function on price, and include `symbol` so you can group the average 
   price calculations by company. The `WHERE` limits the results to
   days within the last week. The [`GROUP BY`][clause-expressions] clause is necessary 
   for aggregation and allows you to group the results by the day and company. Finally the `order by` 
   clause orders the results first on the bucketed date, then by symbol. 

   ```sql
   SELECT

>       time_bucket('1 day', time) as bucket,

Author: ```suggestion
      time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
```
